Data Analytics is a process of examining data sets in order to draw conclusions about the information they contain. It gives a brief view to big data, in other words the domain of Data Analytics is giving sense to Big Data. Data Analytics includes extracting data and categorizing it in order to derive various patterns, relations, connections, and other such valuable insights from it.
Data Analytics initiatives can help businesses increases revenues, improve operational efficiency, optimize marketing campaigns and customer service efforts, respond more quickly to emerging market trends. Data Analytics is an extremely important domain in today’s data driven world where 90 percent of the data has been created in the last two years alone.
[Data Science Training](https://intellipaat.com/data-scientist-course-training/) professionals are seeing a huge upside in a data driven world. If you want to be a Data Scientist, Data Engineer or Data Analyst then you need to consider Data Analytics Training. Data Analyst is among one of the top paying jobs in today’s data world.
Data Analytics is primarily conducted in business to customer applications. Global organizations collect and analyze data associated with customers, business processes, market economics or practical experience. Data is categorized,stored and analyzed to study purchasing trends and patterns. Data Analytics is used in many industries to allow companies and organization to make better business decisions and in the sciences to verify or disprove existing models or theories. The top companies recruiting Data Analytics professionals are Accenture, Amazon, IBM, United Health Group, Deloitte and many more.
Roles and Responsibilties of a Data Analyst are:
Collect data from various sources
Organize the data the holds value
Generate and present detailed reports
Look for patterns,correlations,trends
Provide ideas for process improvement 

    Types of Data Analytics:
Prescriptive Analytics
Predictive Analytics
Diagnostic Analytics
Descriptive Analytics
